The licensing of Chorale is a little unusual, as it is intended to
honour fully the requirements placed on certain elements of it by the
GPL and LGPL, while leaving the rest of it -- the parts with no such
requirements -- available for reuse in any other software, even
proprietary software, with or without attribution.

Some configuration scripts in the "autotools" directory are derived
works of the Autoconf Macro Archive (at
http://autoconf-archive.cryp.to), though all use the AllPermissive
licence.

The remaining source code, i.e. everything not in the "autotools"
directory, is hereby released by its author or authors into the public
domain, and all copyright is disclaimed.

Some sections of source code in the "choralecd" directory are, in
part, derived works of example code supplied with Qt3. Unlike Qt
itself, the example code is not licensed under the GPL or LGPL:
qfileiconview.cpp, for instance, says "This example program may be
used, distributed and modified without limitation".

In distributing *binaries* compiled from this source code, you need to
pay attention to the licences of third-party libraries which such
binaries will be linked against.

In particular, if you have a version of Qt earlier than 4.5.0, *or* if
you have libcdio but not the alternative cdparanoia library, then
those libraries are licensed under the GNU General Public Licence,
version 3 (GPLv3). In that case, this source code will by default
produce binaries which link against these GPL-licensed libraries --
binaries which themselves can therefore only be distributed under the
same licence, which is found in the file COPYING.GPL. Get proper legal
advice if unsure.

Subsequent versions of Qt (4.5.0 and later) are licensed under the GNU
Library General Public Licence (LGPL), found in the file COPYING.LGPL
-- as are cdparanoia, TagLib, and other libraries linked by binaries
compiled from this source code. Such binaries are therefore "works
that use the Library" as per Section 5 of the LGPL, and you must not
redistribute them without complying with the requirements of Section
6. Get proper legal advice if unsure.

You can use the configure options --without-gpl or --without-lgpl to
avoid the use of GPL and GPL/LGPL libraries respectively (by
eliminating the corresponding Chorale functionality), but this is no
substitute for carefully checking licences yourself if you intend to
release LGPL or closed-source derived works of Chorale. On the other
hand, if you don't mind distributing your derived work under GPLv3,
you can of course just go ahead and enable everything.
