	Chorale 0.01 (Technology Preview 1)
	-----------------------------------

How to build it:
    ./configure
    make
    sudo make install

What you get:
    choraled (background daemon)
      - Rio Receiver server
      - UPnP MediaRenderer server (experimental)
    choralecd (desktop application)
      - CD ripping
      - Rio Receiver client
      - Media playback
      - UPnP MediaRenderer client
      - UPnP MediaServer client (experimental)

You also get a certain amount of Doxygen documentation ("make doc").


Configure problems
------------------

In many cases Chorale might not really need software versions quite as
new as the configure script demands. If you have older ones, try
fiddling with version numbers in configure.ac.

Some of the things that the configure script claims are optional,
aren't really optional yet.


Rio Receiver server
-------------------

This is a replacement for Audio Receiver Manager and/or receiverd. It
offers the following advantages over those packages:
  - Can be given both a directory tree of MP3s and a corresponding
    directory tree of FLACs, and knows to serve MP3s to real Rio
    Receivers but FLACs to car-player Receiver Edition or choralecd.
  - Automatically rescans the media library when it changes; no more
    manual updating or SIGHUP. (Though SIGHUP still works, just in
    case.)

Unlike Audio Receiver Manager, choraled does not incorporate an NFS
server or a DHCP server. If you want to use choraled with real Rio
Receivers, you will need to arrange for them to be NFS-bootable; see
libreceiverd/README.


UPnP MediaRenderer server
-------------------------

This service is still incomplete. It doesn't yet support the
ConnectionManager service, which among other things means that control
points can't determine which audio formats it supports.

The audio formats it supports are the ones GStreamer does. In
particular, it only supports MP3 if your GStreamer installation does;
note that the gst-plugins-ugly package release version 0.10.6 (the
latest, at time of writing) has broken MP3 support, and you may
require a CVS snapshot of it instead.


CD ripping
----------

Ripping is done to both FLAC and MP3 simultaneously, in order to
produce parallel directories as expected by choraled. Note that you
can rip from multiple CD-ROM drives simultaneously -- though, if you
try this with two drives on the same IDE channel, it might end up
slower than ripping sequentially. Note also that you can start ripping
a new CD as soon as a finished one is ejected, whether or not the encoding
and tagging window is still open for the old one.

Once you click Done in a CD ripping window, you need to watch the
status bar of the main choralecd window to see when all the background
encoding tasks have finished and choralecd can be safely quit.


Rio Receiver client
-------------------

This is still incomplete, and lacks most of the "soup" queries you
would expect. It is easiest to browse the server through the
"Playlists" item. Items (songs) can be dragged from the right-hand
pane, onto any audio output's set-list window.


Media playback
--------------

Opens a set-list, or running-order, for playback of audio files. Drag
tracks into the set-list window from a Receiver or MediaServer
explorer window. Click on a track in the set-list window and click the
play (">") button to play it.

This currently uses GStreamer, which by default uses the default ALSA
playback device, usually "plughw:0,0". Again, this means it only
supports the audio formats that your GStreamer installation does; see
"UPnP MediaRenderer server", above.


UPnP MediaRenderer client
-------------------------

As well as a set-list for local playback, choralecd lets you open a
set-list on any detected UPnP MediaRenderer device (tested with
choraled, GMediaRender, and the Roku Soundbridge media player).

Note that Rio Receiver servers can't negotiate content type, so that
if you're using choraled as a Receiver server, it will be serving you
FLACs where it can, which you won't be able to play on a Roku
Soundbridge.

GMediaRender doesn't support SetNextAVTransportURI, nor give any
indication when the currently-playing track has finished, so choralecd
can only tell it to play one file at a time.


UPnP MediaServer client
-----------------------

As well as Receiver servers, choralecd will let you browse any
detected UPnP MediaServer device (tested with GMediaServer and
Microsoft Windows Media Connect). This is still very incomplete. Use
the "Playlists" item to browse the server's folder structure.
